This is a proposal for a WG2 blob (bytevector) API.  Blobs have no native interpretation, but parts of them can be interpreted as one of a variety of binary types.  The conceit is that everything is a separate procedure with minimal arguments; this makes for a lot of procedures, but each one can be easily inlined by even a very dumb compiler, providing high efficiency.

=== Basic procedures ===

(`blob?` ''obj'')::
  Returns `#t` if ''obj'' is a blob.
(`make-blob` ''n'')::
  Returns a newly allocated blob containing ''n'' bytes.
(`blob-length` ''blob'')::
  Returns the length of ''blob'' in bytes.
(`copy-blob` ''blob'')::
  Returns a newly allocated blob containing the same bytes as ''blob''.

Because there is no preferred way to interpret the data in a blob, there is no `blob` function analogous to `list` or `vector` and no second argument to `make-blob`.

=== Numeric procedures ===

(`blob-<type>-ref` ''blob n'')::
  Returns a Scheme number corresponding to the binary value encoded according to ''type'' beginning at offset ''n'' in ''blob''.
(`blob-<type>-set!` ''blob n v'')::
  Converts ''v'' to a binary value encoded according to ''type'' and places it into ''blob'' beginning at offset ''n''.

The types are:

`u8`::
  unsigned 8-bit integer
`s8`::
  signed 8-bit integer
`u16`::
  unsigned 16-bit integer in native endianism
`u16be`::
  unsigned big-endian 16-bit integer
`u16le`::
  unsigned little-endian 16-bit integer
`u16`::
  signed 16-bit integer in native endianism
`s16be`::
  signed big-endian 16-bit integer
`s16le`::
  signed little-endian 16-bit integer
`u32`::
  unsigned 32-bit integer in native endianism
`u32be`::
  unsigned big-endian 32-bit integer
`u32le`::
  unsigned little-endian 32-bit integer
`s32`::
  signed 32-bit integer in native endianism
`s32be`::
  signed big-endian 32-bit integer
`s32le`::
  signed little-endian 32-bit integer
`u64`::
  unsigned 64-bit integer in native endianism
`u64be`::
  unsigned big-endian 64bit integer
`u64le`::
  unsigned little-endian 64-bit integer
`s64`::
  signed 64-bit integer in native endianism
`s64be`::
  signed big-endian 64bit integer
`s64le`::
  signed little-endian 64-bit integer
`u128`::
  unsigned 128-bit integer in native endianism
`u128be`::
  unsigned big-endian 128-bit integer
`u128le`::
  sunigned little-endian 16-bit integer
`s128`::
  signed 128-bit integer in native endianism
`s128be`::
  signed big-endian 128-bit integer
`s128le`::
  signed little-endian 16-bit integer
`f32`::
  32-bit float
`f64`::
  64-bit float
`c64`::
  64-bit complex number (two 32-bit floats)
`c128`::
  128-bit complex number (two 64-bit floats)

=== String procedures ===

(`blob-<encoding>-ref` ''blob n l'')::
  Returns a Scheme string corresponding to the binary value encoded according to ''encoding'' beginning at offset ''n'' in ''blob'' and continuing for ''l'' bytes.
(`blob-<encoding>-set!` ''blob n v'')::
  Converts ''v'' to a binary string encoded according to ''encoding'' and places it into ''blob'' beginning at offset ''n''.  Returns the number of bytes encoded.

The encodings are:

`utf8`::
  UTF-8 encoding
`utf16`::
  UTF-16 encoding (respects BOM if present, defaults to native encoding otherwise)
`utf16be`:
  UTF-16BE encoding (treats BOM as a normal character)
`utf16le`:
  UTF-16LE encoding (treats BOM as a normal character)
`utf32`::
  UTF-32 encoding (respects BOM if present, defaults to native encoding otherwise)
`utf32be`:
  UTF-32BE encoding (treats BOM as a normal character)
`utf32le`:
  UTF-32LE encoding (treats BOM as a normal character)

=== Issues ===

Pick one:

  1. Offsets are in bytes and can be arbitrary
  1. Offsets are in bytes but must be naturally aligned (divisible by n for an n-byte value)
  1. Offsets are in n-byte sub-blobs (forces natural alignment, SRFI-4 style)

Are blobs required to be disjoint from vectors?

Should the f and c types be forced to be IEEE, or should they be native?  (It doesn't matter on most architectures.)

=== WG1 ===

I propose that WG1 provide `blob?, make-blob, blob-length, copy-blob, blob-u8-ref, blob-u8-set!` only.
