These are Scheme procedures that correspond to basic syntax.  They are derived from [[https://github.com/danfuzz/samizdat/blob/master/doc/library-guide/If.md|the If class of Samizdat]].

`(begin-procedure `''thunk'' ...`)`

Invokes ''thunks'' in order, and returns what the last thunk returns, or an unspecified value if there are no thunks.

`(if-procedure `''pred-thunk then-thunk'' [[|''else-thunk'' ]]`)`

Invokes ''pred-thunk''.  If it returns true, invokes ''then-thunk'' and returns what it returns.  Otherwise, invokes ''else-thunk'' and returns what it returns, or if ''else-thunk'' is not specified, returns an unspecified value.

`(if-not-procedure `''pred-thunk else-thunk''`)`

Invokes ''pred-thunk''.  If it returns true, returns an unspecified value.  Otherwise, invokes ''else-thunk'' and returns what it returns.

`(value-procedure `''test-thunk then-proc else-thunk''`)`

Invokes ''test-thunk''.  If it returns true, invokes ''then-proc'' on the returned value and returns what it returns.  Otherwise, invokes ''else-thunk'' and returns what it returns.

`(case-procedure `''value-thunk thunk-alist'' [[|''else-thunk'' ]]`)`

Invokes ''value-thunk'', and searches ''thunk-alist'' as if by `assv` for the value it returns.  If there is no such entry in ''thunk-alist'', invokes ''else-thunk'' and returns what it returns, or returns an unspecified value if ''else-thunk'' is not provided.  If there is an entry in ''thunk-alist'', its cdr is invoked as a thunk, and `case-procedure` returns what the thunk returns.

`(and-procedure `''thunk'' ...`)`

Invokes each ''thunk'' in the order given, and returns `#f` immediately if any of them return `#f`.  Otherwise returns the value of the last thunk, or `#t` if there are none.

`(or-procedure `''thunk'' ...`)`

Invokes each ''thunk'' in the order given, and if any of them returns true, `or-procedure` returns that value immediately.  Otherwise returns `#f`.

`(loop-procedure ''thunk''`)`

Invokes ''thunk'' repeatedly.  Does not return.

`(while-procedure ''thunk''`)`

Invokes ''thunk'' repeatedly until it returns `#f`.  Returns an unspecified value.


