== Generalized `equal?` predicate ==

`(generalized-equal? `''obj1 obj2''` . `''comparator-list''`)`

Compares ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' for equality.  A ''comparator'' is a procedure that is given two arguments to compare.  It returns `#t` if its arguments are to be considered equal, `#f` if they are to be considered unequal, and the symbol `pass` if it cannot decide.  The third argument passed to a comparator is ''comparator-list'', to be used in recursive calls to `generalized-equal?`.

First, each element of ''comparator-list''  is invoked on ''obj1'' and ''obj2'', passing ''comparator-list'' as its third argument.  If the comparator returns `#t` or `#f`, that is the result.

If all comparators in ''comparator-list'' have been invoked with a `pass` result, then `generalized-equal?` determines if both ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are ordered containers of the same type.  This determination is partly implementation-dependent, but pairs, strings, vectors, and bytevectors must be treated as ordered containers of distinct types.  If they are not both ordered containers of the same type, then `generalized-equal?` returns what `eqv?` returns on ''obj1'' and ''obj2''.

Otherwise, if the containers have different numbers of elements, the result is `#f`.  Otherwise, `generalized-equal?` invokes itself recursively on each corresponding element of the containers, passing itself the same comparators.  If any recursive call returns `#f`, that is the result; if all recursive calls return `#t`, that is the result.

`(make-atomic-comparator `''type-predicate compare-predicate''`)`

Returns a comparator that invokes ''type-predicate'' on its first and its second arguments.  If they both return `#t`, then they are assumed to be of the same type, and ''compare-predicate'' is invoked on the first and second arguments together.  If the result is `#t` or `#f`, then the comparator returns `#t` or `#f` respectively.  If they are not of the same type, a third value is returned.  The resulting comparator always ignores its third argument.

== Standard comparators ==

`(numeric-comparator `''obj1 obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are numbers that are equal in the sense of `=`, `#f` if they are numbers that are not equal in the sense of `=`, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

`(char-ci-comparator `''obj1'' ''obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are characters that are equal in the sense of `char-ci=?`, `#f` if they are characters that are not equal in the sense of `char-ci=?`, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

`(list-comparator `''obj1 obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are lists of the same length whose elements are equal in the sense of `generalized-equal?` when passed ''comparators-list'', `#f` if they are lists that are not equal in that sense, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

`(vector-comparator `''obj1 obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are vectors of the same length whose elements are equal in the sense of `generalized-equal?` when passed ''comparators-list'', `#f` if they are vectors that are not equal in that sense, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

`(string-comparator `''obj1 obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are strings that are equal in the sense of `string=?`, `#f` if they are strings that are not equal in the sense of `string=?`, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

`(string-ci-comparator `''obj1 obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are strings that are equal in the sense of `string-ci=?`, `#f` if they are strings that are not equal in the sense of `string-ci=?`, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

`(bytevector-comparator `''obj1 obj2 comparators-list''`)`

A comparator that returns `#t` if ''obj1'' and ''obj2'' are bytevectors of the same length whose elements are equal in the sense of `generalized-equal?` when passed ''comparators-list'', `#f` if they are bytevectors that are not equal in that sense, and `pass` otherwise.  The ''comparators-list'' argument is ignored.

When used by an implementation that doesn't provide bytevectors, this procedure always returns `pass`.

== Issues ==

Should the third value be specified?  As designed, if a badly written comparator returns nonsense, it's just ignored rather than giving the implementation of `generalized-equal?` a chance to report an error.  The symbol `pass` has been suggested.