This is an early draft of proposals for the Orange Edition (numbers) of R7RS-large. For other dockets, see [wiki:WG2Dockets].

'''Numeric types and operations'''

Integer division: DivisionRiastradh

Fixnums:  [[http://www.r6rs.org/final/html/r6rs-lib/r6rs-lib-Z-H-12.html#node_sec_11.2|R6RS]], without preposterous mustard and with DivisionRiastradh

Flonums:  FlonumsCowan and maybe NanMedernach

Compnums: CompnumsCowan

Extended rational numbers:  ExtendedRationalsCowan (based on withdrawn [[http://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-73/srfi-73.html|SRFI 73]]).

Random numbers: [[http://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-27/srfi-27.html|SRFI 27]] plus AdvancedRandomGauche or RandomnessArcfide or RandomnessCowan

Prime numbers:  PrimesGauche.

'''Numeric and semi-numeric data structures'''

Integer sets:  [[http://wiki.call-cc.org/eggref/4/iset|IntegerSetsShinn]] supplemented with IntegerSetsCowan.

Bit vectors:  [[http://wiki.call-cc.org/eggref/4/iset|IntegerSetsShinn]] supplemented with IntegerSetsCowan.

Integers as bit vectors:  BitwiseCowan (refers to other proposals as well).

Numeric vectors and/or numeric bytevectors:  NumericVectorsCowan and/or BytevectorsCowan.

C-style structs:  [[https://github.com/TaylanUB/scheme-bytestructures|ByteStructuresTaylanub]].

Descriptive statistics:  TallyCowan.

Multidimensional generic arrays: ArraysCowan.  Storage classes:  StorageClassesCowan.  Notation: CL or [[http://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-58/srfi-58.html|SRFI 58]] or something else.

'''Enumerations'''

Enumerations:  EnumsCowan

Enumeration sets:  EnumsCowan

Enumeration maps:  EnumsCowan

'''Carryovers from the Red Edition'''

Immutable sets and bags:  ImmutableSetsWortman

Immutable maps: ImmutableMapsWortman

Binary heaps: BinaryHeapsCowan



