Here's my proposal for the R7RS-small plebiscite.  The issue to vote on, per [[http://www.scheme-reports.org/2009/working-group-1-charter.html|the WG1 charter]], is: "Does the eighth draft of R7RS-small satisfy the requirements of the charter?"  (Obviously this does not include the deadlines -- we've missed those.)

I propose that the following ballot be sent to the scheme-reports mailing list with replies directed to the email address of a volunteer vote taker (I am attempting to find such a person by appealing on various non-Scheme-related mailing lists).  The vote taker would concatenate all received replies, minimally encoding "@" to " at ", and post the whole file to a publicly readable web page they control after the end of the ballot.

If such a person cannot be found, posting to the scheme-reports@scheme-reports.org mailing list would probably be adequate.

== Ballot ==

The purpose of this ballot is for you to register your views about the work of Working Group 1. In particular, you are being asked whether [[http://trac.sacrideo.us/wg/raw-attachment/wiki/WikiStart/r7rs-draft-8.pdf|the eighth draft of R7RS-small]], [[https://code.google.com/p/chibi-scheme|Chibi Scheme, the sample implementation]], and [[https://code.google.com/p/chibi-scheme/source/browse/#hg%2Ftests|the test cases]] satisfy the requirements of [[http://scheme-reports.org/2009/working-group-1-charter.html|the WG1 charter]].  Please send your vote to FIXME.

Full name (required):  Insert your name here.

Location (optional):  Insert your physical location here.

Affiliation (optional):  Insert your institutional affiliation, if any, here.

Contact details (optional):  Insert any contact details here.  The email address from which you post the ballot will be assumed to be a primary contact method, unless overridden here.

Statement of interest (not required if you registered for the R6RS ratification or the 2009 Steering Committee election):  Insert at least 75 words of original content explaining your interest in Scheme and the Scheme standard and your stake in the outcome of the ratification process.

Vote (required):  Insert "yes" or "no" here.

Rationale (optional):  Insert your explanation of why you voted the way you did here.  Anyone voting "no" is particularly encouraged to complete this section.

== Comments ==

This is a variant of the registration and ballot forms used for R6RS ratification process and for the Steering Committee election.  Both registration and voting are combined into a single form.  Note that the entire content of the ballot will be published.

== Issues ==

Some people might not vote because it would disclose their email address even with encoding protection.