
== Informal discussion ==

General comments and discussion should be sent to the public
discussion list scheme-reports@scheme-reports.org.  The WG has
and will continue to monitor this list, responding and issuing
tickets for actionable items.

== Formal comments ==

Formal comments should also be sent to the same public discussion
list, scheme-reports@scheme-reports.org, to encourage timely feedback
from other members of the community.

To distinguish the post as a formal comment, simply say so in the post
itself, e.g. by writing "Formal Comment" at the top of the body.
Formal comments are also subject to the requirements listed below.
The effect of making the comment formal is to specifically request a
ticket be issued, and the commenter cc'ed and notified of progress and
resolution.  A complete list of formal comments and responses will be
provided when the final draft is submitted for ratification.

== Formal comment requirements ==

A formal comment is valid and will be approved only if:

  * it is submitted to scheme-reports@scheme-reports.org,
  * it is not obviously spam,
  * it is not a followup to an earlier post, and
  * it contains the following required information, clearly marked:
    * submitter's name
    * submitter's email address
    * type of issue (optional):
      * Defect
      * Enhancement
      * Simplification
   * priority (optional):
     * Critical
     * Major
     * Minor
     * Trivial
   * R7RS component (optional):
     * Arithmetic
     * Base Library
     * Concepts
     * Exceptions
     * Formal Semantics
     * Formal Syntax
     * I/O
     * Lexical Syntax
     * Libraries
     * Macros
     * Miscellaneous
     * Presentation
     * Records
     * Scripts
     * Unicode
     * Other (specify)
  * version of the report (draft 5, draft 6, etc.)
  * one-sentence summary of the issue
  * full description of the issue

Posters should also include, where appropriate:

  * references to relevant specific page numbers
  * proposals for how to fix the issue
  * dependencies on other issues

If an editor chooses to reject a formal comment, other than
obvious spam, the editor will email the submitter with an
explanation of the problem, at which point the submitter may
correct the problem and resubmit.

== Formal comment tracking ==

Formal comments will be recorded in the trac ticket system under the
milestone "Public Review", with the original reporter cc'ed.  The WG
member recording the ticket should choose an appropriate component and
priority if not specified.

== Formal response ==

All formal comments will receive a formal response (marked as such)
from the editors before the R7RS small language is finalized. The
formal response will describe the action taken and the rationale for
that action. Individual editors are encouraged to reply informally,
and such notes are not to be taken as formal responses.
