This is a list of the 335 standard R7RS-small identifiers in alphabetical order along with the packages they are in:

```
-                                       base
*                                       base
...                                     base
/                                       base
_                                       base
+                                       base
<                                       base
<=                                      base
=                                       base
=>                                      base
>                                       base
>=                                      base
abs                                     base
acos                                    inexact
and                                     base
angle                                   complex
append                                  base
apply                                   base
asin                                    inexact
assoc                                   base
assq                                    base
assv                                    base
atan                                    inexact
begin                                   base
binary-port?                            base
boolean?                                base
boolean=?                               base
bytevector                              base
bytevector?                             base
bytevector-append                       base
bytevector-copy                         base
bytevector-copy!                        base
bytevector-length                       base
bytevector-u8-ref                       base
bytevector-u8-set!                      base
caaaar                                  cxr
caaadr                                  cxr
caaar                                   cxr
caadar                                  cxr
caaddr                                  cxr
caadr                                   cxr
caar                                    base
cadaar                                  cxr
cadadr                                  cxr
cadar                                   cxr
caddar                                  cxr
cadddr                                  cxr
caddr                                   cxr
cadr                                    base
call/cc                                 base
call-with-current-continuation          base
call-with-input-file                    file
call-with-output-file                   file
call-with-port                          base
call-with-values                        base
car                                     base
case                                    base
case-lambda                             case-lambda
cdaaar                                  cxr
cdaadr                                  cxr
cdaar                                   cxr
cdadar                                  cxr
cdaddr                                  cxr
cdadr                                   cxr
cdar                                    base
cddaar                                  cxr
cddadr                                  cxr
cddar                                   cxr
cdddar                                  cxr
cddddr                                  cxr
cdddr                                   cxr
cddr                                    base
cdr                                     base
ceiling                                 base
char?                                   base
char<?                                  base
char<=?                                 base
char=?                                  base
char>?                                  base
char>=?                                 base
char->integer                           base
char-alphabetic?                        char
char-ci<?                               char
char-ci<=?                              char
char-ci=?                               char
char-ci>?                               char
char-ci>=?                              char
char-downcase                           char
char-foldcase                           char
char-lower-case?                        char
char-numeric?                           char
char-ready?                             base
char-upcase                             char
char-upper-case?                        char
char-whitespace?                        char
close-input-port                        base
close-output-port                       base
close-port                              base
command-line                            process-context
complex?                                base
cond                                    base
cond-expand                             base
cons                                    base
cos                                     inexact
current-error-port                      base
current-input-port                      base
current-jiffy                           time
current-output-port                     base
current-second                          time
define                                  base
define-record-type                      base
define-syntax                           base
define-values                           base
delay                                   lazy
delay-force                             lazy
delete-file                             file
denominator                             base
digit-value                             char
display                                 write
do                                      base
dynamic-wind                            base
else                                    base
emergency-exit                          process-context
environment                             eval
eof-object                              base
eof-object?                             base
eq?                                     base
equal?                                  base
eqv?                                    base
error                                   base
error-object?                           base
error-object-irritants                  base
error-object-message                    base
eval                                    eval
even?                                   base
exact                                   base
exact?                                  base
exact-integer?                          base
exact-integer-sqrt                      base
exit                                    process-context
exp                                     inexact
expt                                    base
features                                base
file-exists?                            file
finite?                                 inexact
floor                                   base
floor/                                  base
floor-quotient                          base
floor-remainder                         base
flush-output-port                       base
force                                   lazy
for-each                                base
gcd                                     base
get-environment-variable                process-context
get-environment-variables               process-context
get-output-bytevector                   base
get-output-string                       base
guard                                   base
if                                      base
imag-part                               complex
import                                  base
include                                 base
include-ci                              base
inexact                                 base
inexact?                                base
infinite?                               base
input-port?                             base
input-port-open?                        base
integer?                                base
integer->char                           base
interaction-environment                 r5rs
interaction-environment                 repl
jiffies-per-second                      time
lambda                                  base
lcm                                     base
length                                  base
let                                     base
let*                                    base
let*-values                             base
letrec                                  base
letrec*                                 base
letrec-syntax                           base
let-syntax                              base
let-values                              base
list                                    base
list?                                   base
list->string                            base
list->vector                            base
list-copy                               base
list-ref                                base
list-set!                               base
list-tail                               base
load                                    load
log                                     inexact
magnitude                               complex
make-bytevector                         base
make-list                               base
make-parameter                          base
make-polar                              complex
make-promise                            lazy
make-rectangular                        complex
make-string                             base
make-vector                             base
map                                     base
max                                     base
member                                  base
memq                                    base
memv                                    base
min                                     base
modulo                                  base
nan?                                    inexact
negative?                               base
newline                                 base
not                                     base
null?                                   base
number?                                 base
number->string                          base
numerator                               base
odd?                                    base
open-binary-input-file                  file
open-binary-output-file                 file
open-input-bytevector                   base
open-input-file                         file
open-input-string                       base
open-output-bytevector                  base
open-output-file                        file
open-output-string                      base
or                                      base
output-port?                            base
output-port-open?                       base
pair?                                   base
parameterize                            base
peek-char                               base
peek-u8                                 base
port?                                   base
positive?                               base
procedure?                              base
quasiquote                              base
quote                                   base
quotient                                base
raise                                   base
raise-continuable                       base
rational?                               base
rationalize                             base
read                                    read
read-bytevector                         base
read-bytevector!                        base
read-char                               base
read-line                               base
read-string                             base
read-u8                                 base
real?                                   base
real-part                               complex
remainder                               base
reverse                                 base
round                                   base
scheme-report-environment               r5rs
set!                                    base
set-car!                                base
set-cdr!                                base
sin                                     inexact
sqrt                                    inexact
square                                  base
string                                  base
string?                                 base
string<?                                base
string<=?                               base
string=?                                base
string>?                                base
string>=?                               base
string->list                            base
string->number                          base
string->symbol                          base
string->utf8                            base
string->vector                          base
string-append                           base
string-ci<?                             char
string-ci<=?                            char
string-ci=?                             char
string-ci>?                             char
string-ci>=?                            char
string-copy                             base
string-copy!                            base
string-downcase                         char
string-fill!                            base
string-foldcase                         char
string-for-each                         base
string-length                           base
string-map                              base
string-ref                              base
string-set!                             base
string-upcase                           char
substring                               base
symbol?                                 base
symbol=?                                base
symbol->string                          base
syntax-error                            base
syntax-rules                            base
tan                                     inexact
textual-port?                           base
truncate                                base
truncate/                               base
truncate-quotient                       base
truncate-remainder                      base
u8-ready?                               base
unless                                  base
unquote                                 base
unquote-splicing                        base
utf8->string                            base
values                                  base
vector                                  base
vector?                                 base
vector->list                            base
vector->string                          base
vector-append                           base
vector-copy                             base
vector-copy!                            base
vector-fill!                            base
vector-for-each                         base
vector-length                           base
vector-map                              base
vector-ref                              base
vector-set!                             base
when                                    base
with-exception-handler                  base
with-input-from-file                    file
with-output-to-file                     file
write                                   write
write-bytevector                        base
write-char                              base
write-shared                            write
write-simple                            write
write-string                            base
write-u8                                base
zero?                                   base
```
