= Standard condition predicates, accessors, and constructors =

Conditions created by an implementation are opaque objects as far as
this proposal is concerned; they may be any Scheme object such as a list, a vector, or a
record.  However, a variety of constructors, predicates, and accessors
are provided in order to help programs 
create and/or examine implementation-specific conditions.
If a predicate returns `#t` on a particular condition, the related accessor(s)
will return information, hopefully meaningful and useful.  Otherwise, calling the accessors
has undefined effect.
It is common for more than one predicate to return `#t` on a particular condition.
The constructors allow user programs to create conditions that answer to the related predicates and constructors.

 * `(message-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' contains a string message describing the condition to humans, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-message `''message-condition''`)`

Returns the message associated with ''message-condition''.

 * `(who-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' contains a string or symbol describing the object which is the
source of the exception, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-who `''who-condition''`)`

Returns the ''who'' object associated with ''who-condition''.

 * `(irritants-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' contains a list of objects providing additional information
about the condition, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-irritants `''irritants-condition''`)`

Returns the list of irritants (possibly empty) associated with ''message-condition''.

 * `(make-error-condition `''who''` `''message''` . `''irritants''`)`

Creates a condition which answers #t to `who-condition?`, `message-condition?`, and `error-condition?`.

 * `(external-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an exceptional situation that is
caused by something that has gone wrong in the interaction
of the program with the external world or the user, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-external-condition . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `external-condition?`.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(violation-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an exceptional situation that is
a violation of the language standard or a library standard,
typically caused by a programming error, otherwise `#f`. 

 * `(make-violation-condition . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `violation-condition?`.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(invocation-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an invalid call to a procedure,
such as passing an invalid number of arguments or passing an argument of the wrong type, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-invocation-condition . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `invocation-condition?`.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(implementation-restriction-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes a violation of an implementation restriction
that is allowed by the specification, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-implementation-restriction-condition . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `implementation-restriction-condition?`.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(storage-exhausted-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' is reporting that storage is exhausted, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-storage-exhausted-condition . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `storage-exhausted-condition?`.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(parse-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes a lexical syntax error
or an error in parsing a datum, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-parse-string `''parse-condition''`)`

Returns the string which could not be parsed.

 * `(make-parse-condition `''parse-string''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `parse-condition?`.  ''Parse-string'' is the string which could not be parsed.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(syntax-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes a syntax error, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-form `''syntax-condition''`)`

Returns the form containing a syntax error.

 * `(condition-subform `''syntax-condition''`)`

Returns the subform which more precisely locates the syntax error.

 * `(make-syntax-condition `''form''` `''subform''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `syntax-condition?`.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.  ''Form'' and ''subform'' are the form containing a syntax error and the form containing a syntax error respectively.

 * `(identifier-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an undefined identifier, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-identifier `''identifier-condition''`)`

Returns the identifier which is undefined as a symbol.

 * `(make-identifier-condition `''identifier''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `identifier-condition?`.  ''Identifier'' is a symbol representing the identifier which is undefined.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(port-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes a problem with a port, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-port `''port-condition''`)`

Returns the port associated with ''port-condition''.

 * `(make-port-condition `''port''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `port-condition?`.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(i/o-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an exceptional situation with I/O, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-i/o-condition `''port''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `i/o-condition?`.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(read-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an exceptional situation with input, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-read-condition `''port''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `read-condition?`.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(write-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an exceptional situation with output, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-write-condition `''port''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `write-condition?`.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(position-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes an attempt
to set a port's position invalidly, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-position `''position-condition''`)`

Returns the position specified by the user.

 * `(make-position-condition `''port''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `position-condition?`.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(filename-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' has a filename associated with it, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-filename `''filename-condition''`)`

Returns the filename associated with ''filename-condition'' as a string.

 * `(make-filename-condition `''port''` `''filename''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `filename-condition?`.  ''Filename'' is the name of the file associated with the condition.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(file-protection-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes a file protection violation, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(make-file-protection-condition `''port''` `''filename''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `file-protection-condition?`.  ''Filename'' is the name of the file associated with the condition.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

 * `(file-existence-condition? `''condition''`)`

Returns `#t` iff ''condition'' describes the existence or nonexistence of a file, otherwise `#f`.

 * `(condition-file-exists? `''file-existence-condition''`)`

Returns `#t` if the filename associated with ''file-existence-condition'' exists but should not,
or `#f` if it does not exist but should.

 * `(make-file-exists-condition `''port''` `''filename''` `''file-exists?''` . `''args''`)`

Creates a condition which answers `#t` to `filename-condition?`.  ''Filename'' is the name of the file associated with the condition.  ''File-exists?'' specifies whether the file exists or not.  ''Port'' is the port associated with the condition.  The ''args'' have implementation-dependent meaning.

