## Date and time operations

This is a WG2 proposal for date and time operations.
It's possible to implement parts of SRFI 19 on top of it,
but it is both simpler to use and more flexible.
All the objects discussed here (with the technical
exception of timespecs) are immutable.
This SRFI supports only the
[proleptic Gregorian calendar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proleptic_Gregorian_calendar).

## Issues

VERY BIG ISSUE:  This library needs to make up its mind about leap seconds.
Instances, which respect leap seconds,
lost full nanosecond precision in less than two weeks after the Epoch
and lost microsecond precision in 2002,
assuming a 64-bit float representation of inexact numbers.
Timespecs, which don't respect leap seconds, are precise indefinitely,
and on a system whose fixnums are 53 bits or more
are good for a billion years before overflowing into a bignum.
So they really aren't interchangeable.

## Timespecs and instants

Scheme uses two formats for absolute timestamps, which
in this SRFI are called *instants* and *timespecs*.

An *instant* is an exact
or inexact rational number representing
a particular second or fraction of a second
of the TAI scale, such that 0 represents midnight on January 1, 1970 TAI
(equivalent to approximately 8 seconds before midnight Universal Time)
and the value 1 represents one TAI second later.
The current instant can be obtained more or less accurately
by invoking the R7RS-small procedure `current-second`.

A *timespec* is a pair whose car is the number of whole seconds and
whose cdr is the number of nanoseconds on the Posix time scale,
which counts the number of seconds *excluding leap seconds*
ince midnight on January 1, 1970 Universal Time.
The current timespec can be obtained by calling the SRFI 170
procedure `posix-time`.
In this SRFI, the timespec during a leap second is always the same
(in the sense of `equal?`) as
the timespec for the following second, but the results of calling
the Posix procedure `clock_gettime()` do not necessarily agree.

`(tai->posix `*instant*`)`

Converts an instant to the corresponding Posix timespec.

`(posix->tai `*timespec leapsec*`)`

Converts a Posix timespec to the corresponding instant.
The *timespec* can refer ambiguously
to a leap second (23:59:60) or to the second just before it
(23:59:59).  If that is the case and *leapsec* is true,
the returned value will refer to the leap second.  Otherwise,
it will refer to the second before it.

`(timespec->iso `*instant*`)`

Converts a timespec to an ISO 8601 string representing the year,
month, day of the month, hour, minute, second, and fraction of a second.
All such ISO 8601 strings are in the UTC timezone.

`(iso->timespec `*string*`)`

Converts an ISO 8601 string of the form given in `timespec->iso`
to a timespec.  As long as this procedure can accept any string
generated by `timespec->iso`, it does not need to be a general
ISO 8601 parser.

## Time zones

Local civil time is everywhere specified using
an offset from Universal Time.  (For a brief period this was not
true in Saudi Arabia, but this SRFI ignores the Saudi government's
attempt to change local civil time so that hour 0 begins at sunset.)

In each political jurisdiction the rules for changing the offset vary,
both the annual cycle of standard vs. daylight saving time (if in effect)
and any unpredictable changes in the offset applied by political entities.
This SRFI therefore requires a *time zone* to be supplied in order
to convert a timespec or instant to local time.  It requires support for numeric timezones,
which are Universal Time minus local time in seconds, and strongly recommends
support for named time zones as defined by the
[IANA time zone database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones); these are strings.

When local time moves backwards (typically some time in the autumn)
the same local time can represent two different Universal Time values.
This difference is called a *date fold* and is 0 for the earlier time
and 1 for the later time.  For example, the fold is 0 at 2:00 A.M. daylight time
and 1 at 2:00 A.M. standard time one hour later
on the day when daylight saving time ends in the U.S.
The fold for any unaffected time is always 0.  The idea behind the name is that
the local time scale is folded up, as it were, replicating the same local times.

The current timezone can be obtained from the SRFI 170 procedure
`default-timezone`.   Note that there is no concept in this SRFI of
a date without a timezone; some timezone must be supplied whenever a
date object is created.

## Localization

This SRFI does not deal with localization beyond the matter of time zones.
It does not know the names of the months or of the days of the week in any language,
or the names and starting dates of Japanese eras,
or whether local clocks are 12-hour or 24-hour,
or how to spell "AM" and "PM",
or anything about non-Gregorian calendars,
including those proposed for other celestial bodies.
Sufficient to the day is the evil thereof.

Note that names like "EST" are actually not timezone names but names of offsets,
and are not globally unique: this SRFI does not deal with them either.

## Date objects

A *date object* is an immutable member of a disjoint type
that provides information about a specific instant
of time with respect to a certain time zone.
Date objects have multiple numeric-valued fields that can be extracted listed in the
"Date Fields" section below.

## Date object procedures

`(make-date `*alist*`)`  

Returns a date object based on the values fields in the alist,
which maps symbols (called fields) to specific values.
The fields `timezone`, `hours`, `minutes`, `seconds`, `nanoseconds`,
and `fold` (see below under "Date Fields" are required, and so are
one of the following combinations:
`year`, `month`, and `day-of-month`;
or `week-year`, `week`, and `day-of-week`;
or `year` and `day-of-year`.
Any other fields present are ignored.

`(instant->date `*timezone instant*`)`

Returns a date object in *timezone* that is equivalent to
*instant*. 

`(timespec->date `*timezone timespec leapsec*`)`

Returns a date object referring to *timespec* modified by *timezone*.
The *timezone* and *leapsec* arguments converted as if by `posix->tai` to
obtain an instant, which is then converted to a date object as if
by `instant->date`.

`(date? `*obj*`)`

Returns `#t` if *obj* is a date object, and `#f` otherwise.

`(date->alist `*date*`)`

Returns a newly allocated alist containing the fields of *date* (see below).

`(date-ref `*date fieldname*`)`

Retrieves the value of the field named by the symbol *fieldname* from *date*.
This may be more efficient than generating an alist, but may also be
less efficient if several different fields are required.

`(date-update `*date*` `*fieldname*` `*value*`)`

Returns a date object based on *date*, but with the field named *fieldname* updated to *value*.
An error that satisfies `date-error?` is signaled if the field is unknown
or the value is out of range.

`(date-adjust `*date*` `*fieldname*` `*increment*`)`

Returns a date object which is later than *date* by *increment*
measured in the units specified by *fieldname*,
or earlier if *increment* is negative.
For example, `(date-adjust `*date*` 'day-of-month 7)` adds seven days to *date*.

`(date-round `*date*` `*fieldname*`)`

`(date-ceiling `*date*` `*fieldname*`)`

`(date-floor `*date*` `*fieldname*`)`

`(date-truncate `*date* *fieldname*`)`

Returns a date object which is the same as *date*,
but adjusted to the nearest integral value of *fieldname*
using the `round`, `ceiling`, `floor`, or `truncate` conventions.
This may cause other fields to change their values as well.

## Date fields

Unless otherwise noted, all ranges are inclusive at both ends, and all
field values are exact integers that have been rounded down if necessary.

`instant`: The instant of this date.

`timespec`: The  timespec of this date.

`timezone`: The timezone with which this date was created.

`local-time-offset`: The local time zone offset in effect at this
date at the specific timezone in seconds ahead of UTC.

`year`: The year.  Note that 1 BCE is represented as 0 and 2 BCE as -1.

`month`: The month, where 1 is January and 12 is December.

`day`: The day of the month between 0 and 31 (or less in some months)

`hour`: The hour of the day, where 0 represents the time between
midnight and 1 AM and 23 represents the time between an hour before
midnight and midnight.  Midnight itself is both minute 0 of hour 0
of the following day and minute 0 of hour 24 of the preceding day.

`minute`:  The minute of the hour between 0 and 59.

`second`: The second of the minute between 0 and 59.

`week`: The ISO week number.  Week 1 of a year is the week
from Monday to Sunday containing January 4.  The last week
of a year may be 52 or 53, and may include days from the
following year.

`day-of-week`: The day of the date's week, where Monday is 1 and Sunday is 7.

`week-of-month`: The ordinal of this day of the week within its month.
For example, July 16, 1969 was the third Wednesday of its month. This
value has nothing to do with ISO weeks.

`weeks-in-month`: The number of times the date's day of the week appears
in its month.  For example, there were five Wednesdays in June 1969.
This is *not* the number of rows required to display a calendar of the month.

`days-in-month`: The number of days in the date's month.

`week-year`: The year, except that any days before ISO week 1 begins belong to the
previous year, and any days after the last ISO week ends belong to the following
year.

`weeks-in-year`: The number of ISO weeks in this date's week-year.

`day-of-year`: The day of the year, in the range 1-365 in non-leap years and 1-366 in leap years.

`days-in-year`: The number of days in this date's year.

`fold`:  The date fold associated with this date (see above).

`julian-day`: The whole number of days between this date and noon Universal Time, January 1, 4173 B.C.E. Julian
(which is November 24, 4714 B.C.E. Gregorian).

`modified-julian-day`: The whole number of days between this date and midnight Universal Time, November 17, 1858
Gregorian.

`seconds-in-minute`: the number of seconds in the date's minute.

`second-of-day`: The second of the date's day.

`seconds-in-day`: The total number of seconds in the date's day.

## Time durations

A *duration* is an immutable object of a disjoint type representing a period of time,
the sum of some number of years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds.
Note that a duration cannot always be translated directly to a number of seconds, because months are
not all the same length.

## Duration procedures

`(make-duration `*years months days hours minutes seconds nanoseconds*`)`

`(make-week-duration `*weeks days hours minutes seconds nanoseconds*`)`

Returns a duration.  The values of each field must be exact integers.

`(duration? `*obj*`)`

Returns `#t` if *obj* is a duration, and `#f` otherwise.

`(duration-years `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-months `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-weeks `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-days `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-hours `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-minutes `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-seconds `*duration*`)`  
`(duration-nanoseconds `*duration*`)`

Extract the individual value of each field of *duration*.
The returned values don't
necessarily correspond with the original values
from which the duration was constructed;
in particular, a duration of 28 months is treated
as if it had been specified as 2 years 4 months.
Note that durations created with `make-duration` report 0 weeks,
whereas durations created with `make-week-duration` report 0 months and 0 years.

`(duration-total-months `*duration*`)`

Reports the total number of months in *duration*, counting each year as 12 months.

`(duration-total-minutes `*duration*`)`

Returns the total number of minutes, exclusive of any months or years, in *duration*.

`(duration-total-seconds `*duration*`)`

Reports the number of seconds, exclusive of any months or years, in *duration*,
counting each week as 7 days, each day as 24 hours, each hour as 60 minutes,
and each minute as 60 or 61 seconds.

`(duration->alist `*duration*`)`

Returns a newly allocated alist mapping the symbols
`years`, `months`, etc. into their values.

`(duration->iso `*duration*`)`

Returns an ISO 8601 string representing *duration*.

`(iso->duration `*string*`)`

Returns a duration corresponding to an ISO 8601 string that represents a duration.
As long as all strings that can be produced by *iso->duration*
are accepted, this procedure does not have to be a general ISO 8601
duration parser.

`(date-add `*date duration*`)`

Adds *duration* to *date* to produce another date.  Components of the duration are added
in the order specified above: first years, then months, etc.

`(date-subtract `*date1 date2*`)`

Subtracts *date1* from *date2* to produce a duration, which will always have
0 years and 0 months.

## Comparators

`date-comparator`

A comparator suitable for ordering date objects by their underlying instants.

`duration-comparator`

A comparator suitable for ordering duration objects by their underlying instants.

## Implementation notes

The sample implementation provides only an approximation of the mapping between TAI
and UTC.  The two time scales are assumed to be synchronized at 00:00:00
on January 1, 1958 and at all times before that.  From 1958 through 1971,
the relationship is complex, but since 1971 the two scales have been kept
within 0.9 seconds of each other by inserting leap seconds as needed.

For the messy period, the implementation pretends that there were leap seconds
at the end of December 31 (that is, at 23:59:60 proleptic UTC time) in the following
years:  1959, 1961, 1963, 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1970, and 1971.
This has the following desirable effects: the TAI-UTC offset is 0 in 1958
(true by definition), at the Epoch it is
is 8 (which is within a few milliseconds of the true value) when the Unix
epoch begins, and is 10 at the start of 1972 when UTC and its leap second regime
begins.  Not having a leap second in 1969 ensures that there is none
just before the Unix epoch.  The implementation also pretends,
*faute de mieux*, that there will be no more leap seconds in the future.

To update the leap second tables, download the file
[http://maia.usno.navy.mil/ser7/tai-utc.dat](http://maia.usno.navy.mil/ser7/tai-utc.dat)
and run the script `update-leapsec`, which is written in portable Scheme.


