= WG1 Ballot Items To Finalize By Oct. 31 =

== WG1 - Modules ==

=== #2 Module System ===

As per the charter, we need a module system
proposal which allows sharing of code between
implementations.

This is one issue where we can't default to
the R5RS, since it has no module system. If
we can't come to consensus, we will have to
take the R6RS module system as-is.

Note the '''r6rs--''' option is just the
R6RS module system without versioning or
phasing.

  * '''Proposals:'''
    * '''ganz:''' ModulesGanz
    * '''hsu:''' ModulesAndPackagesArcfide
    * '''shinn:''' ModulesShinn
  * '''Options:''' ganz, hsu, shinn, r6rs, r6rs--, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' shinn, ganz, undecided, r6rs--, hsu, r6rs

== WG1 - Core ==

=== #57 Simple randomness ===

Student programs often want a small amount of randomness, not
necessarily of very high quality.  Shall we provide a simple interface
to a random variables in WG1 Scheme?

  * '''Proposals:'''
    * '''cowan:''' RandomCowan
  * '''Options:''' cowan/core, cowan/module, srfi-27/core, srfi-27/module, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' cowan/module, srfi-27/module, wg2, undecided, no, cowan/core, srfi-27/core

== WG1 - Exceptions ==

=== #18 Exception System ===

R6RS provided a detailed exception system with
support for raising and catching exceptions, using
a hierarchy of exception types.

Do we use this, or parts of it, or a new exception
system?

  * '''Proposals:'''
    * '''cowan:''' ExceptionHandlingCowan
  * '''Options:''' cowan/core, cowan/module, r6rs/core, r6rs/module, wg2, none, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' none, wg2, undecided, cowan/module, r6rs/module, cowan/core, r6rs/core

== WG1 - I/O ==

=== #52 read/write cyclic data ===

SRFI-38 standardizes the #0=(1 . #0#) shared
structure notation for read/write.  In the case
of write, this can be expensive to compute, but
otherwise the common case of the repl printing
a cyclic structure results in an infinite loop.

Do we want to add support for this, as an option
or separate set of procedures?

`srfi-38` for separate procedures or `native` to require `read` and
`write` to handle cyclic notation.

  * '''Options:''' srfi-38/core, srfi-38/module, native, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' native, srfi-38/core, srfi-38/module, wg2, undecided, no

== WG1 - Macros ==

=== #8 SRFI-46 ellipse specifier in syntax-rules ===

As an alternative to #7, SRFI-46 proposed
allowing an optional ellipse specified as
an identifier before the literals list in
syntax-rules:

  (syntax-rules ::: ()
     <ellipse now represented as ::: instead of ...>)

Do we allow this?

  * '''Options:''' yes/core, yes/module, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' yes/core, yes/module, wg2, undecided, no

=== #9 tail patterns in syntax-rules ===

SRFI-46 and R6RS both allow a fixed number of
tail patterns following an ellipsis in a syntax-rules
pattern:

  (P1 ... Pk Pe <ellipsis> Pm+1 ... Pn)

R6RS further allows dotted tail patterns

  (P1 ... Pk Pe <ellipsis> Pm+1 ... Pn . Px)

where Px only matches a dotted list.

Do we allow either or both of these extensions?

  * '''Options:''' tail/core, tail/module, dotted-tail/core, dotted-tail/module, both/core, both/module, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' tail/core, tail/module, wg2, no, both/core, both/module, dotted-tail/core, dotted-tail/module, undecided

== WG1 - Numerics ==

=== #22 mantissa widths ===

R6RS introduced the concept of mantissa widths
as an alternative to the R5RS #s in numbers.
Do we want either or both of these?

  * '''Options:''' r5rs, r6rs, both, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' r6rs, wg2, r5rs, no, undecided, both

== WG1 - Reader Syntax ==

=== #11 case-sensitivity ===

Does the reader fold case by default, and if so how?

Yes to fold-case (R5RS) no to preserve case (R6RS), additional votes
to come later from specific proposals.

  * '''Options:''' yes, no, implementation-determined, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' yes, implementation-determined, undecided, no

=== #14 alternate comment syntax ===

R6RS provides support for #; nested sexp comments,
and #| ... |# nested block comments.  Do we include
either or both of these?

  * '''Options:''' sexp, block, both, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' both, sexp, block, wg2, no, undecided

== WG1 - Strings and Chars ==

=== #26 string normalization ===

R6RS provides procedures to explicitly convert
strings back and forth between the four Unicode
normalization forms.

The previous phrasing of this option was overly vague, referring to
"any form of normalization."  I've had to treat `yes` votes as
undecided for lack of a better default.  If you voted `yes` before
please choose one of the following options or write in your own
proposal.

  * generic - `string-normalize` converts to a single implementation-defined normal form
  * separate - `string-compose-canonical`, `string-decompose-canonical` and `string-decompose-compatibility` gives orthogonal control over the normalization being performed
  * specific - `string-normalize-{nfd,nfc,nfkd,nfkc}` converts explicitly to the four normal forms defined in the Unicode standard
  * agnostic - `string-ni=?' etc. provides an API of basic normalization insensitive procedures without explicitly converting the strings, analagous to `string-ci=?'

Note UnicodeCowan currently provides specific normalization
procedures.

  * '''Options:''' generic/core, generic/module, separate/core, separate/module, specific/core, specific/module, agnostic/core, agnostic/module, no, wg2, undecided
  * '''Preferences:''' agnostic/module, separate/module, specific/module, generic/module, wg2, agnostic/core, separate/core, specific/core, generic/core, undecided, no
